.\" termin.al-name: edit
.\" termin.al-usage: edit <path>
.\" termin.al-summary: Open or recover a publication draft.
.TH EDIT 1 "" "termin.al" "termin.al Manual"
.ftr B R
.ftr I R
.ftr BI R
.SH NAME
edit \- Open or recover a publication draft.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
edit <path>
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Opens an owner-only editor for a traversal-free recursive blog or notes Markdown path. Existing publications are reconstructed with strict key/value front matter; a missing path opens a minimal slug-derived document. A saved IndexedDB draft is recovered before upstream content is read, and an already-open path is focused instead of duplicated.
.SH EDITOR COMMANDS
:w validates and saves the current source using optimistic draft revision control. :q closes only when the buffer matches the last saved source. :wq saves and closes. :q! discards only the current stored revision and refuses to remove a newer cross-tab revision. :preview opens or updates one uncounted Markdown split without publishing. :asset opens the browser file picker; raster files may also be pasted or dropped into the editor. :publish atomically adds or updates the Markdown, staged assets and catalog entry on the configured repository's current default branch. :remove opens an exact recursive-path confirmation and removes only the Markdown and catalog entry.
.SH ASSETS
PNG, JPEG, WebP and GIF files with canonical filenames can be staged, previewed, replaced and removed. Staging inserts a repository-root-relative Markdown image link at the Vim cursor. Recursive document hierarchy is mirrored below assets/blog or assets/notes. Draft metadata and Blob values are committed together under optimistic revision control; object URLs are preview-only and are never stored.
.SH FAILURES
Authoring and publication require the live owner session and browser IndexedDB. Demo mode rejects every invocation without host, network or storage writes. Invalid roots, traversal, noncanonical slugs or asset filenames, mismatched raster types or signatures, invalid front matter, unavailable repository bases, stale mutations, upstream failures and conflicts do not discard local source or staged files. A conflict replaces an unchanged submitted buffer with whole-document local/upstream markers and the latest base; text typed after submission remains visible instead.
.SH NOTES
Drafts contain publication source, base branch/head/blob references, revision state and staged-asset metadata. Authentication, session, CV and GitHub token values are never stored. Successful publication reports the commit SHA and URL and clears only the exact published draft revision.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
$ edit notes/runtime/files/sample-note.md
$ edit ~/blog/engineering/interfaces/example.md
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
open(1), less(1), login(1)
