.\" termin.al-name: find
.\" termin.al-usage: find [path] [-name pattern] [-path pattern] [-type f|d] [-maxdepth depth] [-mindepth depth]
.\" termin.al-summary: Find bounded virtual paths with direct predicates.
.TH FIND 1 "" "termin.al" "termin.al Manual"
.ftr B R
.ftr I R
.ftr BI R
.SH NAME
find \- Find bounded virtual paths with direct predicates.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
find [path] [-name pattern] [-path pattern] [-type f|d]
     [-maxdepth depth] [-mindepth depth]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Traverses entries beneath a starting directory and prints canonical paths that satisfy every predicate in command order. The default path is the current pane directory. With no predicates, every traversed entry matches. Paths are resolved only inside the shared virtual filesystem.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -name pattern
Match each entry's basename with
.BR * ,
.BR ? ,
.BR [abc] ,
and ascending ranges such as
.BR [a-z] .
.B *
and
.B ?
never cross a slash. A leading dot is matched only when its pattern segment begins with a dot. Malformed bracket constructs are literal; braces, extglob, recursive
.BR ** ,
and regular expressions are not interpreted.
.TP
.B -path pattern
Match the canonical
.B ~
-rooted absolute virtual path with the same glob rules.
.TP
.B -type f|d
Match files, including locked files, or directories.
.TP
.B -maxdepth depth
Visit entries no deeper than
.IR depth .
The starting path has depth 0.
.TP
.B -mindepth depth
Exclude entries shallower than
.IR depth .
A value of 1 excludes the starting path.
.SH OUTPUT
The starting directory is included at depth 0 when it satisfies every predicate. Descendants follow deterministic virtual-filesystem traversal order. No match produces no text output.
.SH FAILURES
Unsupported options, missing predicate values, invalid types or depths, more than one path, invalid or missing paths, files used as the starting path, and locked starting paths are rejected. Depths must be safe integers from 0 through 8.
.SH LIMITS
Traversal has a maximum depth of 8 and stops at the application's recursive-entry limit, currently 100 in the browser demo. Truncation keeps the matches already found and adds a
.B runtime.truncated
diagnostic.
.SH NOTES
Cancellation discards the command outcome. Locked descendants may be listed by path because find matches directory entries without reading document contents.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
$ find -name '*.md'
$ find projects -type f -maxdepth 2
$ find ~/notes -mindepth 1 -path '~/notes/*.md'
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
tree(1), ls(1), grep(1)
