.\" termin.al-name: history
.\" termin.al-usage: history [clear]
.\" termin.al-summary: Show or clear shared browser-local command history.
.TH HISTORY 1 "" "termin.al" "termin.al Manual"
.ftr B R
.ftr I R
.ftr BI R
.SH NAME
history \- Show or clear shared browser-local command history.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
history [clear]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
With no argument, prints the bounded command history shared by shell panes and tabs for this browser origin. Entries are numbered from 1 in retained order and preserve submitted command source, including quoting and pasted text.
.PP
The clear argument clears shared command history in memory and browser-local storage. It does not clear terminal scrollback; use clear(1) for that.
.SH OUTPUT
The history invocation is already present in the execution context and therefore appears as the final entry. Number columns widen as required. history clear produces no output.
.SH FAILURES
Arguments other than the single word clear are rejected. If browser storage is corrupt, oversized, unavailable or rejects a write, history remains functional in memory and reports a payload-free storage diagnostic.
.SH LIMITS
The latest 100 submissions are retained. Consecutive duplicate sources collapse to the latest submission.
.SH PRIVACY
Browser storage contains a record schema version and clear tombstone timestamp. Each retained entry contains only command source, virtual working directory, merge timestamp and deterministic tie ordering data. It does not contain scrollback, command outcomes, errors, diagnostics, secret prompt values or pane identifiers. Commands explicitly defined as accepting credential arguments remain in memory but are not written to storage.
.SH NOTES
Stored history is local to this browser origin and survives pane changes, tabs and reloads according to the browser's storage lifetime. Private browsing therefore uses the browser's ephemeral storage lifetime. History is not stored in the virtual filesystem and is not sent to a server or API.
.PP
Active tabs converge through browser storage events. Simultaneously interleaved tab writes are not atomic and may be observed transiently until a queued event repairs the shared record.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
$ echo one
$ history
$ history clear
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
clear(1), pane(1), pwd(1)
