.\" termin.al-name: less
.\" termin.al-usage: less <path>
.\" termin.al-summary: Open raw virtual document text in a pager.
.TH LESS 1 "" "termin.al" "termin.al Manual"
.ftr B R
.ftr I R
.ftr BI R
.SH NAME
less \- Open raw virtual document text in a pager.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
less <path>
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads one virtual document as raw text and replaces the current shell presentation with termin.al's bounded less-style pager. Markdown is not rendered and the command does not run an external less process.
.SH VIEWER
At most 20 source lines are shown per page. Use j/k or arrows for one line, PageUp/b for one page back, PageDown/Space or Ctrl+f for one page forward, g/G for start/end, and q or Escape to close. The inverse prompt shows the document title and position.
.PP
Pane-prefix handling has precedence: Ctrl+b enters the pane command prefix instead of moving the pager back. On mobile, Esc and up/down operate the pager and Prefix enters the pane prefix; long lines wrap without horizontal scrolling.
.SH FAILURES
Exactly one path is required. Options before
.BR -- ,
invalid or missing paths, directories, locked files and unavailable documents are rejected. Cancellation opens no pager.
.SH NOTES
Closing returns to the same pane's shell transcript, history and working directory. Pager position is transient and resets on each open. The virtual corpus is read-only.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
$ less notes/field-notes/filesystems/sample-note.md
$ less ~/changelog.md
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
man(1), cat(1), open(1)
