.\" termin.al-name: ls
.\" termin.al-usage: ls [-a] [-l] [--tree] [path]
.\" termin.al-summary: List virtual files and directories.
.TH LS 1 "" "termin.al" "termin.al Manual"
.ftr B R
.ftr I R
.ftr BI R
.SH NAME
ls \- List virtual files and directories.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
ls [-a] [-l] [--tree] [path]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Lists one virtual file or directory. The default path is the current pane directory; relative paths resolve there and
.B ~
addresses virtual home. Output comes only from termin.al's published corpus and browser-persistent redirected files, never the host filesystem.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -a
Include hidden entries and add synthetic
.B ./
and
.B ../
rows for directory listings.
.TP
.B -l
Use a long listing with virtual type permissions, UTF-8 byte size, UTC timestamp and name. Locked files show no permissions and the suffix
.BR "[locked]" .
.TP
.B --tree
Render the selected directory recursively as a tree. This may be combined with
.B -a
but not with
.BR -l .
Short flags may be clustered and options may appear before or after the single path.
.SH OUTPUT
Short directory listings contain one name per line; directories end in
.BR / .
A file operand prints only that file. Tree output starts with the canonical root path and marks directories and locked files.
.SH FAILURES
Unknown flags, more than one path, every
.B -l
and
.B --tree
combination, invalid or missing paths, and direct locked-file operands are rejected. Tree mode also rejects file operands as not directories.
.SH LIMITS
Tree mode traverses to depth 8 and stops at the application's recursive-entry limit, currently 100. It preserves rendered entries and adds a
.B runtime.truncated
diagnostic when bounded.
.SH NOTES
Listing does not read document bodies. It can therefore display locked entries without unlocking them.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
$ ls
$ ls -al ~/notes
$ ls --tree projects
$ ls -a --tree
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
tree(1), find(1), cd(1), pwd(1)
