.\" termin.al-name: open
.\" termin.al-usage: open [--split horizontal|vertical] <target>
.\" termin.al-summary: Open virtual content inline or in a split viewer pane.
.TH OPEN 1 "" "termin.al" "termin.al Manual"
.ftr B R
.ftr I R
.ftr BI R
.SH NAME
open \- Open virtual content inline or in a split viewer pane.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
open [--split horizontal|vertical] <target>
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Resolves one target in the virtual filesystem and opens a viewer suited to its type. Files open as rendered Markdown, ordinary directories as read-only listings, and the special projects, blog and notes directories as hierarchical collections.
.PP
Without
.BR --split ,
the viewer temporarily replaces the current shell presentation. A split request creates an independent viewer pane and leaves the originating shell pane in place.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --split horizontal
Create the viewer in a new split stacked vertically on narrow screens and arranged horizontally at desktop width.
.TP
.B --split vertical
Create the viewer in a new vertical workspace split.
.PP
The split option must be first and requires an orientation plus exactly one target. A target beginning with a hyphen may be passed after
.BR -- .
.SH VIEWER
Rendered documents support j/k or arrows, paging, g/G, / search, n/N and q/Escape return. Collections support movement, collapse/expand, filtering and Enter open. A directory viewer is a static listing closed with q or Escape. Closing an inline viewer returns to its shell; closing a split viewer closes that pane, subject to the last-pane rule.
.SH FAILURES
Malformed options, invalid or missing targets, and locked files are rejected. Missing document content produces the stable content-unavailable diagnostic. Cancellation opens nothing.
.SH LIMITS
Blog and notes collection targets traverse at most 100 entries to depth 100. Other directory viewers list one directory level.
.SH NOTES
Targets are virtual paths from the published corpus or redirected-file overlay. Viewer navigation is transient. Shell history and current directory remain owned by the originating shell pane, while a split viewer has no shell runtime.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
$ open about.md
$ open --split vertical projects
$ open ~/notes
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
less(1), pane(1), projects(1), blog(1), notes(1)
