.\" termin.al-name: pane
.\" termin.al-usage: pane split|focus|select|resize|close|zoom|swap|rotate|layout
.\" termin.al-summary: Manage terminal panes.
.TH PANE 1 "" "termin.al" "termin.al Manual"
.ftr B R
.ftr I R
.ftr BI R
.SH NAME
pane \- Manage terminal panes.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
pane split horizontal|vertical [shell|viewer|editor]
pane focus left|right|up|down|next|<number>
pane select <number>
pane resize left|right|up|down
pane close
pane zoom
pane swap previous|next
pane rotate previous|next
pane layout even-horizontal|even-vertical|main-horizontal|main-vertical|tiled|next
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Applies one operation to the in-memory pane tree. Successful operations print the exact text
.BR "Pane operation applied."
Parse and workspace rejections print a command diagnostic.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B pane split horizontal|vertical [shell|viewer|editor]
Split the invoking pane, create and focus a new pane, and select shell content by default. viewer creates a placeholder viewer; editor creates an empty editor buffer.
.TP
.B pane focus left|right|up|down|next|<number>
Focus the nearest pane in a direction, the next pane in traversal order with wraparound, or a one-based pane number.
.TP
.B pane select <number>
Focus a one-based pane number; this is the explicit numeric selection form.
.TP
.B pane resize left|right|up|down
Move the nearest matching split boundary by five percentage points. Ratios are bounded from 10 through 90.
.TP
.B pane close
Close the active pane and focus an adjacent survivor. The final pane cannot close. A dirty editor requests confirmation before removal.
.TP
.B pane zoom
Toggle showing only the active pane; pane contents and layout remain retained.
.TP
.B pane swap previous|next
Exchange the active pane with its adjacent pane in traversal order. There is no wraparound.
.TP
.B pane rotate previous|next
Rotate all panes one position in traversal order. At least two panes are required.
.TP
.B pane layout even-horizontal|even-vertical|main-horizontal|main-vertical|tiled|next
Apply one named automatic layout or cycle through those layouts. Manual split and resize operations return the layout to manual.
.SH FAILURES
Each subcommand requires exactly its documented arguments. Operations can be rejected for an unavailable pane number or direction, a missing adjacent pane, minimum pane size, an unavailable target, or an attempt to close the final pane.
.SH NOTES
Each shell pane owns independent scrollback, command history and working directory, preserved through focus, swap, rotation and layout changes. Closing a shell pane destroys that state and cancels its active work. Pane layout and contents are not persisted across page reloads.
.PP
Ctrl+b starts keyboard pane commands before viewer or pager key handling. Mobile layouts expose pane-selector tabs and a Prefix control.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
$ pane split horizontal viewer
$ pane focus next
$ pane layout tiled
$ pane close
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
open(1), cd(1), history(1), man(1)
