.\" termin.al-name: rm
.\" termin.al-usage: rm [-r] <path>
.\" termin.al-summary: Remove a browser file or owner-managed content.
.TH RM 1 "" "termin.al" "termin.al Manual"
.ftr B R
.ftr I R
.ftr BI R
.SH NAME
rm \- Remove a browser file or owner-managed content.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
rm [-r] <path>
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Requests confirmation before removing one path from termin.al's virtual filesystem. Browser-overlay files may be removed by any visitor. GitHub-backed blog and note files may be removed only by the live owner session.
.PP
Removing an overlay that shadows managed content reveals the managed file. A managed removal deletes its catalog entry and source document in one repository commit; retained asset directories are not deleted.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -r
Remove one directory subtree after a single confirmation. Directories cannot be removed without this option.
.SH CONFIRMATION
The prompt displays
.BR "Remove <path>? [y/N]" .
Only
.B y
or
.B yes
confirms the removal, ignoring case. An empty or other response cancels it.
.SH FAILURES
Exactly one literal path is required. Globs, multiple paths, unsupported options such as
.BR -f ,
the virtual root, locked files, generated documents, project README content, and managed content outside an owner session are rejected.
.SH NOTES
There is no force option. Recursive managed removal is committed atomically. Browser-overlay removal persists in browser storage only.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
$ rm draft.md
$ rm -r notes/archive
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
edit(1), ls(1), tree(1)
