.\" termin.al-name: sed
.\" termin.al-usage: sed [-n] [-e script]... [script] [path ...]
.\" termin.al-summary: Transform piped text or virtual files without mutation.
.TH SED 1 "" "termin.al" "termin.al Manual"
.ftr B R
.ftr I R
.ftr BI R
.SH NAME
sed \- Transform piped text or virtual files without mutation.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
sed [-n] [-e script]... [script] [path ...]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Applies a deliberately bounded sequence of editing commands to logical lines and prints text without modifying a virtual file. Repeated
.B -e
scripts run in argument order. Without
.BR -e ,
the first operand is the script.
.PP
With path operands, sed reads virtual files in operand order and ignores piped input. Without paths, typed piped text is required. A request with neither input form is rejected. The
.B --
terminator is preserved by command parsing, and pathname globs are expanded through the shared virtual-filesystem operand boundary before sed runs.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B p
Print the current pattern space immediately.
.TP
.B d
Delete the current pattern space, stop later scripts for that line and suppress default printing.
.TP
.BI s delimiter pattern delimiter replacement delimiter flags
Compile
.I pattern
as a browser ECMAScript regular expression with the
.B u
flag. Replace the first match, or every match with
.BR g .
The
.B i
flag adds native Unicode ignore-case matching. The flags may be combined.
.SH ADDRESSES
A command may have one one-based numeric or
.B $
address, or an inclusive comma-separated range of those addresses. All path operands form one ordered line stream for addressing. A reversed range applies only on its start-address line. Zero and unsafe numeric addresses are rejected. Positive safe out-of-range addresses simply do not match.
.SH REPLACEMENT
In a replacement,
.B &
inserts the full match and
.B \e1
through
.B \e9
insert capture groups. A backslash quotes the delimiter,
.BR & ,
or another backslash. Other characters are retained conservatively.
.PP
An empty substitution pattern reuses the most recent non-empty substitution pattern from the same sed invocation. It is rejected when no prior pattern exists.
.SH PRINTING
Unless
.B -n
is present, the final pattern space is printed after all scripts. An explicit
.B p
therefore duplicates default output. With
.BR -n ,
only explicit
.B p
output is emitted.
.SH FAILURES AND LIMITS
Every option, script, delimiter, flag and regular expression is validated before any path is read. Missing, locked or unavailable later operands fail the command without returning earlier text. The unsupported
.B -i
option is rejected; sed never writes files, creates backups, reads host paths, starts processes or uses the network.
.PP
At most 1,000 output lines and 1 MiB of UTF-8 output are returned. Truncation is reported. Cancellation is checked between reads, lines and scripts and discards accumulated output. One native regular-expression operation is synchronous once started.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
$ cat about.md | sed -n '1,3p'
$ sed -e 's/demo/live/gi' -e '2d' about.md
$ find notes -type f | grep '\e.md$' | sed 's#^~/#/#'
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
grep(1), find(1), cat(1), head(1), tail(1)
