.\" termin.al-name: tree
.\" termin.al-usage: tree [-a] [-L depth] [path]
.\" termin.al-summary: Render a bounded virtual directory tree.
.TH TREE 1 "" "termin.al" "termin.al Manual"
.ftr B R
.ftr I R
.ftr BI R
.SH NAME
tree \- Render a bounded virtual directory tree.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
tree [-a] [-L depth] [path]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Renders a deterministic hierarchy rooted at one virtual directory. The default path is the current pane directory. Relative paths and
.B ~
use termin.al's shared virtual path resolver; no host filesystem traversal occurs.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -a
Include hidden descendants. The synthetic
.B ./
and
.B ../
rows used by ls listings are not added to tree output.
.TP
.B -L depth
Set the maximum descendant depth from 0 through 8. A depth of 0 prints only the canonical root path. The option may appear before or after the single path; a later value replaces an earlier one.
.SH OUTPUT
The first line is the canonical directory path. Descendants follow deterministic traversal order, with
.B /
for directories and
.B [locked]
for locked entries.
.SH FAILURES
Unknown options, a missing or out-of-range depth, more than one path, invalid or missing paths, files and locked paths are rejected.
.SH LIMITS
Depth defaults to 8. Traversal also stops at the application's recursive-entry limit, currently 100; retained output is followed by a
.B runtime.truncated
diagnostic.
.SH NOTES
Tree reads directory metadata only and does not unlock or render documents. Cancellation returns no tree.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
$ tree
$ tree -L 1 projects
$ tree -a ~/notes
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
ls(1), find(1), pwd(1)
